[Music]
all right
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another
dose i did it i've actually gone and
done it i finally finished the
huge soul-destroying life-crushing usmle
step one exam
it's finished it's done with and i can
put it all behind me usmle step one what
first aid book who
do you guys taste that it's the taste of
freedom i know i can't believe it either
this huge thing that i've dedicated my
life to for the past six months or so is
gone
i feel like i have this big hole in my
life that i need to replace with
something else
and that's where these youtube videos
come in i'm flying to greece in a couple
of hours as i always do whenever i take
a holiday or a break it's going to be
so so wonderful to just be able to
actually relax
enjoy the sun hang out with my friends
just do something different i've
literally been
sat down at this desk almost 10 hours a
day for
like five or six months like can we soak
that in for a second
so yeah i'm just really excited to
honestly be a normal human again like
get back to normal
activities in my life socializing you
know going to the gym and things like
that i've
really really missed those things all
right i've got two big things that i
want to update you guys on in this video
the first of which is my us emily step
one exam i want to tell you guys a
little bit about it what the experience
was like and how it went
and then the second thing is that i'm
about to start my fourth year of medical
school
fourth year of medical school damn that
has a really nice ring to it all right
now before we get into it can i just um
can i take a quick quick moment to just
say a thank you
to the 407 000 subscribers on my youtube
channel i don't know if you guys can see
that but
four hundred and seven thousand you guys
are absolutely mad
that's crazy i don't know how you guys
have gone and done that hello to
everyone oh
i forgot to zoom out hello to everyone
who's new hi my name is nasser hopefully
you know that by now thank you for
subscribing to this channel thank you
for watching these videos i hope you
enjoy them and i hope you find them
useful
i'll be making plenty more to come in
the coming weeks and months and
everything like that
so make sure you subscribe if you
haven't already alright now let's talk
about the usmle step one exam it's an
eight hour long exam that consists of
seven one-hour blocks of questions and
then one hour of break time that you can
use to split up however you want between
those seven blocks so on the day of the
exam i actually wasn't that nervous
which i was kind of surprised about
even when i was like on the tube going
there and when i was standing outside
the building or waiting in line to get
checked in
i found myself to be like pretty calm i
was taking deep breaths and just telling
myself you know you've done everything
that you can up until this point and
whatever happens now happens you've done
your best however the night before the
exam
i was definitely super super super
anxious and nervous
i actually hadn't even thought about the
fact that my exam was going to be the
next day
until my sister and i were having a
conversation at lunch and she was saying
oh you know everything's going to be
finished tomorrow you're going to be
done it's all going to be over aren't
you so excited
and that's kind of when it hit me that
everything i've worked for for the last
six months is about to culminate in a
single day in a single like
eight hour setting so yeah that felt
like a lot of pressure and that's when i
started to get really anxious and
nervous
so thankfully it seems like the night
before i got all that nervousness and
anxiety out of me and then on the actual
exam day i was pretty chill the exam
center itself was pretty intimidating
there's like cameras everywhere there's
cameras looking at your desk from a
top-down view there's cameras in the
hallways like
you have to walk through a metal
detector and you have to have your
sleeves checked and your trouser pants
checked and your pockets turned out
every single time you enter
the audio all right let's try that again
your ankles are you have to turn out all
of your pockets um
what is happening i swear construction
has like
plagued me here anyway i feel so lucky
that in the actual testing center
i was assigned like a corner cubicle
because i felt like had a little bit of
privacy a little bit of
seclusion and i find it really
distracting when i can see people to my
left or to my right like their head or
their arms and stuff like that so
i feel really lucky that i was like sort
of pushed in the corner and then yeah i
started the first block of questions and
at that point
my heart was again racing racing racing
it's like going to an interview when you
sit down at the beginning and you get
asked the first question you're really
nervous but then as the interview
progresses and you start having more of
a conversation you start to calm down
that's exactly how i felt so i did two
blocks back to back took a 10-minute
break and then did another two blocks
back-to-back trying to mimic my classic
four-hour studying session that you guys
have probably seen on this channel
before and then i took my 20-minute
lunch break and it just so happened that
the two people who were having their
lunch at the same time as me
they both had recognized me from my
youtube videos from this
which is really kind of crazy and was
definitely a bit of like a shock
in the middle of my exam they were both
really polite and we had a nice
conversation which was great to sort of
take our minds off of the fact that we
were in the middle of this very big
important stressful exam
um and yeah if you guys are watching
this i hope you smashed it and best of
luck
then after lunch the fifth block was
fine and then sort of halfway through
the sixth block moving into the seventh
block
i was so so so exhausted i wasn't tired
like i wanted to sleep
i was just so drained like mentally
drained i had been focusing as hard as i
possibly could you know really using my
brain cells and my energy
to try and get these questions right for
the last like five or six hours
and so i was so de-focused by the time i
hit that last block and every time the
thought popped into my head that you
know you only have 30 questions left and
then you'll be done with this exam or
you only have five questions left and
you'll be done with this exam
i tried to push all of that away as best
as i could i didn't want to distract
myself i just wanted to stay completely
focused on what i was doing
and then think about all of that later
and then yeah pretty much before i knew
it
my exam was over the like application
the software application closed and i
was just staring at a blank screen and
i just kind of stared at my desk and i
was like oh my god like is this
it am i done it was it was honestly a
really weird feeling it's weird when
something you've dedicated
so much time and effort to comes to a
close even in university when you have
you know big exam periods at the end of
the year
you know you maybe dedicate like a
couple of weeks like max a month of
hardcore studying and dedication to that
but
six months all for one day it really
felt like
you know like the world was like
culminating in this like peak in this
huge climax
and then it was gone the closest thing
i've experienced to this is when i was
studying for the mcat exam which is a
medical school entrance exam in the
united states and canada
and i think i studied for three months
for that so pretty much half the time so
yeah this was like this was something
completely different
really really strange feeling to have it
all come to an end but a very good
feeling this is a happy feeling this is
not a sad feeling
i'm so happy it's over now historically
i don't have a great track record of
estimating how well i've done on a test
and if i'm honest i don't really like to
think about it when the test results
come out the test results come out
and that's when i'll know but yeah guys
that's it like this exam which
oh my god like the amount of notes that
i took in this book the amount of
time and dedication and effort is just
unbelievable honestly it's unbelievable
obviously every student studying for
this
this exam goes through the same thing
but this was how many pages
about 700 pages of content and then
there's pathoma as well which is another
200 pages and then with all the other
resources you end up using there's like
a thousand pages of just reading and
then something like two to three
thousand
questions and then there's all the like
sketchy stuff
there's oh my god this exam is just
insane it's absolutely insane
and if you take a look at the the notes
that i've written on the ipad
i'll put them up somewhere on the screen
here all the notes that i've taken on
the ipad
pretty much like four years of your
undergraduate biomedical science degree
and then on top of that your first three
years of medical school
that's the content for this exam like
it's huge it's absolutely huge
all right so that's it the step one exam
is completely finished i can put that
behind me
and now i'm gonna start my fourth year
of medical school at king's college
london by the time you guys see this
video it'll be early september i will
have already gone on my small holiday to
greece and come back
and i'm about to start medical school i
actually always look forward to starting
school again after the summer you know
medical school especially but
generally speaking like teaching and
learning and studying are things that i
genuinely enjoy and so i honestly don't
mind doing them
this year we'll be spending the vast
majority of our time in a hospital
actually on the wards talking to
patients and learning how to manage them
and things like that which i'm very very
excited about
every time we go up a level in medical
school we gain more responsibility we
gain more knowledge and also the fact
that i've spent the last six months
reading about all kinds of different
diseases i'm really interested to see
those things in real life so in fourth
year of medical school at king's college
london we all do
four blocks of about eight weeks each
i'm not sure if we all do them at the
same time or if we're like jumbled about
but we go through the blocks of
pediatrics mental health
emergency medicine and critical care and
then the last one
is i think ob gyn or maternal health so
i'm starting on pediatrics which i'm
actually really happy about because
i always feel like i have a good
interaction with children i have a good
mannerism with children
and you know i feel like it spices
things up compared to all of the adults
that you see in the hospital every year
before we start in the hospitals we have
a bunch of online courses and classes
that we need to complete
most of them i'd say are like
formalities things about health and
safety
what to do during emergencies and things
like that so i've got to complete those
over the coming week to make sure i'm
prepared
and then as far as outside preparation
that i'm going to do for the upcoming
year
i think thankfully all of this work that
i've done for the exam is definitely
going to help me and it's going to go a
long way
but i am planning on getting one book
just a second i'm planning to get the
specialties equivalent of this book over
here
if you guys aren't aware of this book or
you don't know about it it's basically
like
a shorthand pocketbook for all the major
organ systems of the body
and it covers a whole bunch of different
diseases and management it's very very
helpful it's something that i used a lot
when i was studying for my exams at
king's college london and i carry on the
words with me if i'm honest i don't
really check it that much when i'm on
the wards because i find that there's
enough for me to do already
without having to pull out a book even
though historically i've very rarely
used books to accompany my lectures in
medical school because now we have so
few lectures and so much time spent in
the hospital on placement
i think it's going to be helpful to have
a book so that i can sort of follow
along and take a look at what are the
types of things that i should be seeing
or should be learning about
while on placement luckily i've been
placed in london-based hospitals for
most of my placements over the next two
years
so i'm not gonna have to move anywhere
for like eight weeks at a time
there's only one placement where it
might make more sense to do that because
it's a little bit further away but i
think i'll see how it goes when we get
there so yeah i'll be able to stay in
london stay within my social circle
within the social life that i have here
which i think is really great i think it
would be a shame if
in my fourth and fifth year of medical
school i would have to sort of go
somewhere else and start fresh in terms
of a social life or a new city and
things like that
i'm happy that i get to stay where i am
also i have everything that i need here
i have
you know my massive monitor behind me
i've got this huge desk all of my
lighting and my equipment for filming
these youtube videos i don't really want
to be moving all that around when school
starts again i'll be able to make more
medical school vlogs which i'm really
excited about because that's what that's
what i really enjoyed doing on this
channel that's sort of what helped and
made it grow yeah i think making medical
school vlogs is really fun you know
taking you guys along on a whole day and
explaining to you what it is that i'm
doing at different times
yeah at the end of the day the goal of
this channel is really to give you guys
an insight into what life is like at
medical school
and also hopefully help you with your
studies and things like that at the same
time so yeah i'm excited to start making
vlogs again
i'm excited to start uploading on this
youtube channel on a weekly basis
i know i took a little bit of a break
you guys have left me such great
comments on the last video so
thank you guys for that thank you for
your continued support and yeah i think
that's pretty much it for major life
updates
usm step one exam is finished i'm
backstar medical school
and in the middle i'm gonna take a quick
little holiday so i should probably get
going
finish off this packing and get ready to
go to the airport once again thank you
for taking the time to watch this video
i hope you found it useful i hope you've
enjoyed it and if you did
don't forget to leave a like on it and
subscribe to my channel see more content
from me
in the future and i'll see you in the
next one peace
guess who's back guess who's back guess
who's back but i'm done
i'm done all right that's probably not
going in that